# Tab Time Tracking Extension
#### Video Demo: https://youtu.be/hpYPeTe60w0
#### Description:
On the internet it is easy to lose track of time as one browses from one news site, to media site, to shopping. It begins a never ending unhealthy cycle of time inefficiency as one mindlessly "surfs" the web. With this in mind, I created an extension to help users understand where their time goes so they can make smarter decisions on the web and become more efficient.
Time Keeper keeps track of tabs and time on each tab. The purpose is to improve time efficiency so user will know how much time they spend on different sites in order to better understand how they can use their time. This extension will help users better understand their web habits, enabling them to make needed changes to use their time more efficiently with the goal of improving productivity. This can be useful for those who are looking to reduce distractions and focus on improving their online habits.

The first file within the folder is background.js. This is a javascript file that ultimately does everything in the background. It keeps track of the time spent on sites and stores it within Chrome so that the time is live while the popup is open and closed. It works with the popup script to provide the data that is seen and relays messages between the two so the time is consitent.

The Manifest json file contains the necessary permissions needed for this extension to run such as tab viewing, storage and working while idle. It also has permission to recall what URL the user is on so that it can be relayed within the background and popup scripts. It labels the background.js as a service worker so it is able to perform in the proper way to obtain information and store it even while it is in the background. It also links the popup with the popup.html file and icon, in order to be seen within the extensions tab. It also contains the version, name, and description. Since I had several previous versions such as 0.1,0.2,0.3, and so forth, once I got to the point that I was aiming for within the extension, it was labeled as version 1.0 (the official release), with the name of "Time Keeper".

Popup.html is the visuals of the entire extension. It is what's seen when it is clicked in chrome to see what tabs have been used. I wanted to use soft colors such as a light blue and gray, so I designed the ribbon to be a little darker of a blue, having the gray finish it, within the main body that contains the information. I was aiming for calm colors so the viewer does not stress when they look at time (I generally tend to). I did not want the popup to be overly large, so everything is kept to a minimalist sort of view, containing the logo for publicity. Overall, it was designed to look simple and easy on the eyes as information is drawn form the popup.js file.

The main file with the most complication in my opinion is the popup.js. This took serious time to build as I ran accross several troubles trying to keep the time flowing smooth while the popup is repeatedly opened and close (an error I ran into earlier is when it was opened then closed, the time would stop counting). This file also take the time counter and converts it into minutes and hours as it counts. It then updates and renders the time so it can be seen counting live as the user opens the extension. Near the end of the file, I used the incrementTimeSpent function to keep the time live while the popup is opened. This is again where most of my trouble was as I kept missing the importance of communicating with the background in order to keep time live. It then cleans up how many resources are used so the timer is not active while the popup is closed (the background continues to update). This helps to allow lower end computers to use the extension without sacrificing much power. Finally, this file also grabs the domain that the user is on and saves it along with the time spent on that site. As the user switches to another tab, it will then grab the new domain and begin a new active timer for it (with assistance from the background file) and store that in the list of tabs so when a site is revisited, the timer will begin where it left off.

To conclude, Time Keeper may look simple as a basic extension that just keeps time, but it is a complex tool that can be used to use delicate time more efficiently. It is designed to give users insight to their online habits so they can better understand where they tend to go when surfing the web. With this information, change becomes easier to make. With knowledge comes power. Time Keeper helps users obtain more power over their time.
